hi my name's Susie Baldwin and I run
Golden Valley poultry and I'm going to
be talking to you about keeping chickens
different breeds have more of a chance
of needing clipping and in the chicken
world it's what the gorn's things like
that
Eric honors campaigns the flighty birds
with not a lot of body weight I would
say to you that a lot of the heavy
breeds really do not need it there's no
need to do it hybrids it's a good idea
to quickly wings it just grounds them
they're nervous when you take them home
pretty scared and it just settles them
down a bit stops them being quite as
agile now a lot of people cringe when I
when I mention clipping chicken wings it
does not hurt them if done properly it's
just like doing your nails they don't
bat an eyelid but you do need to be
careful there are blood vessels in there
and you don't want to be hitting them
now when you spread your chickens wings
you'll see the flight feathers at the
top and then you've got what I call the
keep warm feathers never take these keep
warm feathers off it keeps the girls
warm now there's always a separating
feather which you can see here in the
middle that's where you start to make
your cut and you take a nice sharp pair
of scissors spreading the bird's wing
out and making sure that you don't go
below this line of feathering as you can
see here if you go below that you're
likely to hurt the chicken and make it
bleed and it will bleed believe me so
take your scissors start by the just
after the separating feather and go
straight across sounds awful but as you
can see she doesn't feel a thing
just like doing your nails you only do
one side you don't do both wings
otherwise they will be just as nimble
and that's how to clip bird wings
this is just one of many tips derived
from my book the essential guide to
choosing and keeping happy healthy hens